---
sidebar_position: 16
title: Asset Barcodes
---

# Asset Barcodes
AdamRMS supports the following barcode types:
- EAN_8
- EAN_13
- CODE_39
- CODE_93
- CODE_128 - this is the preferred barcode type.

## Barcodes
---
Barcodes can contain any information and can be assigned to an asset using the [AdamRMS App](../AdamRMS%20App/adam-rms-app).  
An asset can have many barcodes assigned to it (for example, a company asset barcode and the manufacturer’s item barcode) but only one barcode can be the asset’s Tag. The asset Tag is the primary key that identifies an individual asset on the RMS, and is listed on projects and the asset page. Tags can be the primary asset barcode, but may not be.

AdamRMS stores all associated barcodes with an asset, and so any associated barcode can be scanned to recall that asset.

:::info Barcode case study  
York Techsoc uses a number of different barcodes, depending on the asset type.  
Cables use the barcode stickers generated by AdamRMS, which includes a cable length colour strip. This means they have A-XXXX tags and barcode values as this is what is generated by Adam-RMS by default.  
They also have Asset stickers for larger assets. These stickers have T-XXXX tags (and barcodes) which are based on the asset sticker barcode, rather than the RMS auto-generated tags.  
:::

## AdamRMS Barcode generation
---
AdamRMS can generate sheets of asset barcodes that can be printed on stickers or cable wraps.

:::note Asset Barcode Permissions  
84 - View Asset Barcodes - required to access barcode generation  
85 - Scan Barcodes in the App  
86 - Delete Asset Barcodes  
88 - Associate any unassociated barcode with an asset  
:::

Asset Generation is customisable to add what you need to the stickers. Settings include:  
- Show Asset Tag
- Show Asset Type
- Show Asset Mass
- List Asset Type’s 1st Definable tag
- Use Cable Length Colours (see [Basic Settings](../Business%20Management/business-settings#basic-settings))
- Show Logos
- Use Cable Wrap or Standard format

Barcode pages can then be generated on an Asset basis (list asset tags to print) or by an [Asset Group](./asset-groups). You can also generate blank barcodes to be associated with an asset at a later date.
